Well, I think we'd agree that it's very hard-warming to know that we serve a God of comfort.
And he provides us with so many reminders that highlight the need for us to encourage,
strengthen, and comfort one another, especially now in the times in which we live, because
none of us know the full weight of what our brothers here in the Bethlehem family and
our congregations might be facing or dealing with.
So having and showing empathy, fellow feeling towards one another is so important.
Perhaps a good example of how not to show comfort and fellow feeling is described for
us by Job's three comforters.
You might recall they were so busy judging him and giving Job speeches that they failed
to take the time to understand him and to show fellow feeling.
In fact, in all the talking they did, not once do we read that they even address Job by name.
The watchtower made a statement regarding these comforters.
It said, evidently, they view Job more as a problem than as a person.
Now how do you think that treatment made Job feel?
It's a term with many of your Bibles to Job chapter 19, and we'll listen to Job's words.
Job chapter 19 verse 2.
He says, How long will you keep irritating my soul, crushing me with words?
How sad.
Instead of providing encouragement and comfort, those companions only made Job feel irritated,
crushed and frustrated.
What doesn't this highlight that if we don't give thoughts to our words and actions,
if we view our brother more as a problem than as a person, then we're not going to be
able to provide them with the comfort and support they may need.
Perhaps we might work with or wear in the congregation with someone that has faults or
traits that bother us.
Maybe that these faults are actually legitimate causes of concern.
But in our dealings with them, if those faults are the only thing that we can see, if that's
the only thing we focus on, then it's going to be very difficult for us to see them as
a faithful fellow worker of Jehovah.
More than likely, all we're going to see is someone who is an obstacle or impediment
to our work.
Someone that is affecting or impacting our production and joy.
And certainly, we're not going to feel good because now we've developed negative feelings
about our brother and our brother is likely going to feel the spirit that we give off.
And how's that going to affect them?
Well, like Job, likely they're going to be frustrated, irritated, and we've only added
to their anxiety.
Well, obviously none of us want to have that sort of effect on our brothers.
And that's why Paul's words to the Thessalonians are a good example worthy of imitation.
When we look at this congregation practically from the beginning, the congregation that
was established in Thessalonica, those brothers and sisters experienced persecution.
In Acts chapter 17, it mentions that fanatical Jews stirred up mom violence, prompting
the brothers to send Paul and Silas away for their personal safety.
Another issue that was affecting the congregation was that they seemingly expressed great sorrow
over losing ones of their number and death.
So now you think about that.
You have the full picture.
Here you have a brand new congregation and they're feeling the heat and pressure of intense
persecution from the outside.
And then on the inside, they're feeling the pain of losing loved ones in death.
Does that congregation in need of comfort and encouragement without question?
But interestingly, in the midst of all of this persecution and sadness, it was also
discovered that those Christians were dealing and struggling with some personal weaknesses.
You look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and there they were counseled to abstain from
fornication, to love one another in fuller measure, to mind their own business, to work
with their hands, then chapter 5, to stay awake spiritually, and to abstain from every
form of wickedness at a number of other matters that needed attention.
Now each of those matters were all legitimate causes of concern.
In fact, Paul felt this was so urgent that he sent them a second letter, which closely
followed his first, but what was Paul going to focus on?
Would he focus on the problem or the people?
Turn with me please to 2 Thessalonians chapter 1.
Let's note how Paul begins this chapter, 2 Thessalonians chapter 1.
And we'll read his words beginning in verse 3.
He says, we are obligated always to give thanks to God for you brothers.
This is fitting, because your faith is growing exceedingly, and the love of each and every
one of you is increasing toward one another.
As a result, we ourselves take pride in you among the congregations of God, because of
your endurance and faith in all your persecutions and the hardships you are suffering.
How beautiful.
Paul starts with specific commendation.
Yes, there were problems that needed to be addressed, but he starts with their good qualities,
what they were doing right.
Can you and I do the same in our dealings with our brothers?
Instead of first thinking what they're doing wrong, what do they do right?
What do we appreciate about them?
Isn't it so much better to focus on their good traits?
The benefits of doing this is that it helps us to develop genuine personal interest in
our brothers, because the far brothers can sense that we truly care about them, that it
actually puts us in a better position to assist them with any matters that may need adjustment.
And what we'll find is that this personal interest can start with something as simple
as acknowledgement.
We recall Job's false comfortors didn't even address Job by name, but the young man Elihu,
when he was given the opportunity to speak, when addressing Job, he respectfully addressed
him by name.
Job chapter 33 verse 1, Elihu begins his words by saying,
Job, please, hear my words.
And there were many other verses where he used Job's personal name as well.
I think we'd agree sometimes it can be so easy, especially for us as brothers to get
into work mode, business mode, where we're just so focused on getting information, whether
it's here at Bethel or in the congregation, we could completely forget to acknowledge
or even greet the brother in front of us.
So what a beautiful reminder we learned from Elihu.
Now we go back to Paul after his commendation in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1.
He starts chapter 2 of 2 Thessalonians with the word, however.
So now they're the contrast, they're the shift in wording, and he begins to address
the problem some had developed regarding a wrong view of Christ's presence.
So we learned from this that Paul did not sugarcoat or overlook issues that needed to be
addressed.
He handled them.
But he did it in such a way where the brothers were still able to feel his loving care
and concern.
In fact, if you look in verse 13, you'll notice he uses the word, however, again.
So another shift, but this time shifting back to words of empathy, love, and exhortation
for his brothers.
Paul was convinced he had a positive conviction that his brothers would do the right thing.
So in review, if we want to be a source of comfort and encouragement to our brothers,
how important it is that we see them not as a problem, not as an impediment to our work,
but as our fellow worker.
And instead of judging, we commend showing genuine personal interest and acknowledgement.
And if there is a legitimate issue of concern, well, we can lovingly address what needs
to be addressed, but always be remembered more for our encouragement than our counsel.
And we're able to do this than our brothers are going to love us for the way that we deal
with them.
But more importantly, our Heavenly Father, our God of comfort, he will love us as well.